README.md, before:

# GREAT
GREAT: a Group Recommendation Evaluation and Analysis Tool

---

## 📦 Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Project setup](#project-setup)
  - [Data Storage setup](#data-storage-setup)
  - [GroupLibRec setup](#grouplibrec-setup)
  - [GREAT API Service](#great-api-service)
  - [Consensus API Service](#consensus-api-service)
  - [Web frontend](#web-frontend)

---

## ✨ Features

- ✅ Group and individual recommendations
- ✅ Structured user interaction analysis
- ✅ Live evaluation with real users 

---

## 🧱 Tech Stack

**Languages:** Python, Javascript, Java.  
**Frameworks:** FastAPI, Node, React.  
**Database:** MongoDb.  
**Containerization (optional):** Docker.  
**Other:** WebSockets (Socket.io).

---

## 🏁 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before running the project, make sure you have:

- Java `>= v18.12.1`
- Node.js `>= v18.12.1`
- Python `>= 3.9`
- Docker (optional but recommended to run MongDb for experimentation)

### Project setup
First, clone this repository.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/davidcontrerasaguilar/GREAT
cd GREAT
```

### Data Storage setup

We strongly recommend to run mongodb through a docker container. 
```bash
services:
  mongodb:
    image: mongo:latest
    restart: always
    ports:
      - "27017:27017" #default port prefered
    environment:
      MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME: root
      MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD: pass
    volumes:
      - ./volume:/data/db
```

At `/data_storage` you can find a `docker-compose.yml` file to an easier setup with default port and credentials, useful for upcoming project setup. Also you can find the dataset used for music recommendation which it should be uploaded into mongodb through a collection. Other collections, like questionnaires data can also be found and uploaded. Not included collections will be generated by the GREAT API Service.

User ratings can be found at `/recomendations/dataset/user_data`.

#### Note

Alternatively you can add your own dataset remapping new attributes into the GREAT API Service. And replacing `/recomendations/dataset/user_data` with your own ratings data with the following structure: `item_id,user_id,rating,timestamp`.

### GroupLibRec setup

Check `/recomendations` directory and your will notice all needed GroupLibRec resources for input/output executed by the compiled Java `.jar` tool program. Specifically, `group.properties` and `user.properties` are configuration files used to execute the recommendation process. Those files contain GroupLibRec configuration propierties for reproducibility and tunning.

### GREAT API Service
First we install required packages.
```bash
# go to /web-librec/server-grouplibrec
cd /web-librec/server-grouplibrec
# install the all packages with npm.
npm install
```
Then at the root directory add a `.env` file with the following required environment variables:
```
SERVER_IP=your_ip
SERVER_PORT=8000
SOCKET_PORT=7000

BASE_DIR=/home/your_user
DIR_GROUPLIBREC=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/grouplbrec.jar
DIR_INDIVIDUALLIBREC=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/individualLibrec.jar
DIR_LIBREC=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/librec.jar
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS_USERS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/usuarios
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS_DATASET_USERS_DATA=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/dataset/users_data
USER_RECOMMENDATIONS_PROPERTIES=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/user.properties
GROUP_RECOMMENDATIONS_PROPERTIES=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/group.properties
RECOMMENDATIONS_RESULTS_USERS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/resultados_usuarios
DIR_IMAGES=$BASE_DIR/web-librec/server-grouplibrec/images
DIR_ICONS_USERS=$BASE_DIR/web-librec/server-grouplibrec/iconos
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS_ROOMS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/salas
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS_RESULTS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/resultados
DIR_RATINGS=$BASE_DIR/data/ratings
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations

#MODELS
DIR_INDIVIDUAL_BASEMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/individual/baseModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_2_BASEMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size2baseGroupModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_3_BASEMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size3baseGroupModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_4_BASEMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size4baseGroupModel.dat

DIR_INDIVIDUAL_DATAMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/individual/dataModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_2_DATAMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size2dataGroupModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_3_DATAMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size3dataGroupModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_4_DATAMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size4dataGroupModel.dat

DIR_LOG=$BASE_DIR/logs

IMAGES=/images
DIR_ICONS=/iconos
DB_PORT=27017
DB_URL=mongodb://root:pass@$SERVER_IP:$DB_PORT/?authSource=admin
DB_NAME=your_db_name
```
Make sure directories and files exist within those environment variables so the service can capture and use them.

Now we can just run the service.
```bash
# run the API service
npm run dev-mongo
```

### Consensus API Service
First we create a virtual environment to install requirements.txt with pip.
```bash
# Change directory to /consensus_service
cd /consensus_service

# Create and activate virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate

# Install requirements.txt with pip
pip install -r requirements.txt

```
Then, you can run the service as:
```bash
uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 9000
```


### Web frontend
First we install requried packages.
```bash
# go to /web-librec/front-grouplibrec
cd 
# install the all packages with npm.
npm install
```
Then at the root directory add an `.env` file with the following required environment variables:
```bash
REACT_APP_BASE_IP=192.168.1.10
REACT_APP_SOCKET_URL=http://${REACT_APP_BASE_IP}:7000
REACT_APP_API_URL=http://${REACT_APP_BASE_IP}:8000
REACT_APP_API_CONSENSUS_URL=http://${REACT_APP_BASE_IP}:9000
REACT_APP_FRONT=http://${REACT_APP_BASE_IP}:3000
```

Replace `REACT_APP_BASE_IP` with your desired ip.

Commit message:

Revise features and correct MongoDb spelling
Updated features section and fixed MongoDb spelling.

README.md, after:

# GREAT
GREAT: a Group Recommendation Evaluation and Analysis Tool

---

## 📦 Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Project setup](#project-setup)
  - [Data Storage setup](#data-storage-setup)
  - [GroupLibRec setup](#grouplibrec-setup)
  - [GREAT API Service](#great-api-service)
  - [Consensus API Service](#consensus-api-service)
  - [Web frontend](#web-frontend)

---

## ✨ Features
GREAT provides a comprehensive environment for user profiling, interaction tracking, and recommendation management within collaborative settings. Its main features include:
- ✅ Support for both group and individual recommendations
- ✅ Structured analysis of user interactions
- ✅ Live evaluation with real users 

---

## 🧱 Tech Stack

**Languages:** Python, Javascript, Java.  
**Frameworks:** FastAPI, Node, React.  
**Database:** MongoDb.  
**Containerization (optional):** Docker.  
**Other:** WebSockets (Socket.io).

---

## 🏁 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before running the project, make sure you have:

- Java `>= v18.12.1`
- Node.js `>= v18.12.1`
- Python `>= 3.9`
- Docker (optional but recommended to run MongoDb for experimentation)

### Project setup
First, clone this repository.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/davidcontrerasaguilar/GREAT
cd GREAT
```

### Data Storage setup

We strongly recommend to run mongodb through a docker container. 
```bash
services:
  mongodb:
    image: mongo:latest
    restart: always
    ports:
      - "27017:27017" #default port prefered
    environment:
      MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME: root
      MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD: pass
    volumes:
      - ./volume:/data/db
```

At `/data_storage` you can find a `docker-compose.yml` file to an easier setup with default port and credentials, useful for upcoming project setup. Also you can find the dataset used for music recommendation which it should be uploaded into mongodb through a collection. Other collections, like questionnaires data can also be found and uploaded. Not included collections will be generated by the GREAT API Service.

User ratings can be found at `/recomendations/dataset/user_data`.

#### Note

Alternatively you can add your own dataset remapping new attributes into the GREAT API Service. And replacing `/recomendations/dataset/user_data` with your own ratings data with the following structure: `item_id,user_id,rating,timestamp`.

### GroupLibRec setup

Check `/recomendations` directory and your will notice all needed GroupLibRec resources for input/output executed by the compiled Java `.jar` tool program. Specifically, `group.properties` and `user.properties` are configuration files used to execute the recommendation process. Those files contain GroupLibRec configuration propierties for reproducibility and tunning.

### GREAT API Service
First we install required packages.
```bash
# go to /web-librec/server-grouplibrec
cd /web-librec/server-grouplibrec
# install the all packages with npm.
npm install
```
Then at the root directory add a `.env` file with the following required environment variables:
```
SERVER_IP=your_ip
SERVER_PORT=8000
SOCKET_PORT=7000

BASE_DIR=/home/your_user
DIR_GROUPLIBREC=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/grouplbrec.jar
DIR_INDIVIDUALLIBREC=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/individualLibrec.jar
DIR_LIBREC=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/librec.jar
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS_USERS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/usuarios
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS_DATASET_USERS_DATA=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/dataset/users_data
USER_RECOMMENDATIONS_PROPERTIES=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/user.properties
GROUP_RECOMMENDATIONS_PROPERTIES=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/group.properties
RECOMMENDATIONS_RESULTS_USERS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/resultados_usuarios
DIR_IMAGES=$BASE_DIR/web-librec/server-grouplibrec/images
DIR_ICONS_USERS=$BASE_DIR/web-librec/server-grouplibrec/iconos
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS_ROOMS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/salas
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS_RESULTS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations/resultados
DIR_RATINGS=$BASE_DIR/data/ratings
DIR_RECOMMENDATIONS=$BASE_DIR/recomendations

#MODELS
DIR_INDIVIDUAL_BASEMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/individual/baseModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_2_BASEMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size2baseGroupModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_3_BASEMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size3baseGroupModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_4_BASEMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size4baseGroupModel.dat

DIR_INDIVIDUAL_DATAMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/individual/dataModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_2_DATAMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size2dataGroupModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_3_DATAMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size3dataGroupModel.dat
DIR_GROUP_SIZE_4_DATAMODEL = $BASE_DIR/recomendations/librec/models/groups/size4dataGroupModel.dat

DIR_LOG=$BASE_DIR/logs

IMAGES=/images
DIR_ICONS=/iconos
DB_PORT=27017
DB_URL=mongodb://root:pass@$SERVER_IP:$DB_PORT/?authSource=admin
DB_NAME=your_db_name
```
Make sure directories and files exist within those environment variables so the service can capture and use them.

Now we can just run the service.
```bash
# run the API service
npm run dev-mongo
```

### Consensus API Service
First we create a virtual environment to install requirements.txt with pip.
```bash
# Change directory to /consensus_service
cd /consensus_service

# Create and activate virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate

# Install requirements.txt with pip
pip install -r requirements.txt

```
Then, you can run the service as:
```bash
uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 9000
```


### Web frontend
First we install requried packages.
```bash
# go to /web-librec/front-grouplibrec
cd 
# install the all packages with npm.
npm install
```
Then at the root directory add an `.env` file with the following required environment variables:
```bash
REACT_APP_BASE_IP=192.168.1.10
REACT_APP_SOCKET_URL=http://${REACT_APP_BASE_IP}:7000
REACT_APP_API_URL=http://${REACT_APP_BASE_IP}:8000
REACT_APP_API_CONSENSUS_URL=http://${REACT_APP_BASE_IP}:9000
REACT_APP_FRONT=http://${REACT_APP_BASE_IP}:3000
```

Replace `REACT_APP_BASE_IP` with your desired ip.
